# predict-student-performance-from-game-play


Goal of the Competition 🏁
The goal of this competition is to predict student performance during game-based learning in real-time. You'll develop a model trained on one of the largest open datasets of game logs.

Your work will help advance research into knowledge-tracing methods for game-based learning. You'll be supporting developers of educational games to create more effective learning experiences for students.

Context
Learning is meant to be fun, which is where game-based learning comes in. This educational approach allows students to engage with educational content inside a game framework, making it enjoyable and dynamic. Although game-based learning is being used in a growing number of educational settings, there are still a limited number of open datasets available to apply data science and learning analytic principles to improve game-based learning.

Most game-based learning platforms do not sufficiently make use of knowledge tracing to support individual students. Knowledge tracing methods have been developed and studied in the context of online learning environments and intelligent tutoring systems. But there has been less focus on knowledge tracing in educational games.

Competition host Field Day Lab is a publicly-funded research lab at the Wisconsin Center for Educational Research. They design games for many subjects and age groups that bring contemporary research to the public, making use of the game data to understand how people learn. Field Day Lab's commitment to accessibility ensures all of its games are free and available to anyone. The lab also partners with ​​​nonprofits like The Learning Agency Lab, which is focused on developing science of learning-based tools and programs for the social good.

If successful, you'll enable game developers to improve educational games and further support the educators who use these games with dashboards and analytic tools. In turn, we might see broader support for game-based learning platforms.

Acknowledgments
Field Day Lab and the Learning Agency Lab would like to thank the Walton Family Foundation and Schmidt Futures for making this work possible.

# DATA 👨🏼‍💻

Dataset Description
This competition uses the Kaggle's time series API. Test data will be delivered in groupings that do not allow access to future data. The objective of this competition is to use time series data generated by an online educational game to determine whether players will answer questions correctly. There are three question checkpoints (level 4, level 12, and level 22), each with a number of questions. At each checkpoint, you will have access to all previous test data for that section.

What files do I need?
You have access to the training data and labels. There are 18 questions for each sessions - you are not given the answers, but are simply told whether the user for a particular session answered each question correctly.

When you are ready to predict, use the sample notebook to iterate over the test data, which is split as described above and served up as Pandas dataframes. Make your predictions for each group of questions - at the end of this process a submission.csv file will have been created for you. Simply submit your notebook.

What should I expect the data format to be?
The training columns are as listed below. The label rows are identified with <session_id>_<question #>. Each session will have 18 rows, representing 18 questions.

What am I predicting?
For each <session_id>_<question #>, you are predicting the correct column, identifying whether you believe the user for this particular session will answer this question correctly, using only the previous information for the session.

Note that the hidden test set is roughly as large as the training set; you should expect it will take much longer to run on than the three test samples provided.

Efficiency prize
This competition also includes an efficiency prize, which will be assessed at intervals throughout the competition. Check out the Efficiency Prize Evaluation page for more details.

Note: this competition is aimed at producing models that are small and lightweight. We have introduced compute constraints to match - your VMs will have only 2 CPUs, 8GB of RAM, and no GPU available. You will still have a maximum of 9 hours to complete the task, but between the constraints and the efficiency prize there will be some interesting sub-problems to solve. Good luck!

Files
train.csv - the training set
test.csv - the test set
sample_submission.csv - a sample submission file in the correct format
train_labels.csv - correct value for all 18 questions for each session in the training set
Columns
session_id - the ID of the session the event took place in
index - the index of the event for the session
elapsed_time - how much time has passed (in milliseconds) between the start of the session and when the event was recorded
event_name - the name of the event type
name - the event name (e.g. identifies whether a notebook_click is is opening or closing the notebook)
level - what level of the game the event occurred in (0 to 22)
page - the page number of the event (only for notebook-related events)
room_coor_x - the coordinates of the click in reference to the in-game room (only for click events)
room_coor_y - the coordinates of the click in reference to the in-game room (only for click events)
screen_coor_x - the coordinates of the click in reference to the player’s screen (only for click events)
screen_coor_y - the coordinates of the click in reference to the player’s screen (only for click events)
hover_duration - how long (in milliseconds) the hover happened for (only for hover events)
text - the text the player sees during this event
fqid - the fully qualified ID of the event
room_fqid - the fully qualified ID of the room the event took place in
text_fqid - the fully qualified ID of the
fullscreen - whether the player is in fullscreen mode
hq - whether the game is in high-quality
music - whether the game music is on or off
level_group - which group of levels - and group of questions - this row belongs to (0-4, 5-12, 13-22)

